Hey there! Ever heard of variables? Well, they're like little containers where you can store your data.
Kind of like a jar with a label on it. Today, I'm going to show you how to use them to store text, numbers, and more.
Ready? Let's go! So what's a variable?
In Java, a variable is a container for storing data values.
There are different types of variables depending on what kind of data you're working with.
For example, a string stores text and int holds whole numbers and a float stores decimals.
A char stores single characters and a Boolean stores either true or false.
Let's look at some examples. Here's how you declare a variable.
First, you have to tell Java what type of variable it is.
Let's create a string variable named Name and assign it the value John.
This will print John on the screen.
Now, let's do the same with a number. This time, we'll create an integer variable called MyNum and set it to 15.
What if you want to change the value? Easy, just reassign it. If MyNum starts at 15, we can update it to 20 like this.
But what if you don't want your variable to change? You can make it final, which makes it unchangeable like locking your jar lid.
Let's say you want to display a message along with your variable. You can combine text and variables using the plus sign like this.
You can also add two variables together. For example, we can combine first name and last name to create a full name.
Want to declare multiple variables of the same type at once? Easy.
Instead of writing them one by one, you can separate them with commas.
You can even assign the same value to multiple variables in one line.
For numeric values, the plus character works as a mathematical operator. Notice that we use int or integer variables here.
Now let's talk about identifiers. Identifiers are unique names that you give your variables.
These names can be short, like X and Y, or more descriptive, like age or total volume.
It's a good idea to use descriptive names for your variables. For example, it can be easier to remember what minutes per hour is used for than just M.
Here are the rules for naming variables in Java. First, names can contain letters, digits, underscores, and dollar signs.
But the name should always begin with a lowercase letter. It is technically possible to start names with uppercase letters, a dollar sign or an underscore.
But it is not recommended and can make your code harder to read and maintain.
Also, remember, Java is case sensitive. So my var with an uppercase V and my var with a lowercase V are treated as two different variables.
Finally, you can't use reserved words like int or Boolean as variable names. Here's a real-life example.
Imagine you're storing information about a student. We can use different types of variables to store the name, ID, age, V, and grade.
Let's break this down step by step. First, we declare a string variable called student name to store the student's name, and we set it to John Doe.
Next, we declare an integer variable student ID to store the student's ID, which is 15.
We also store the student's age in another integer variable, student age, and set it to 23.
The fee is a decimal, so we use a float variable for student fee, setting it to 75.25.
Finally, we store the grade using a char variable called student grade and assign it the value B.
Now we can print all this info to the screen. And if you ever need to calculate something like the area of a rectangle, you can store the length and width in variables and multiply them.
Step by step. First, we declare an integer variable length and set it to 4. Then we declare another integer width and set it to 6.
Now to calculate the area, we multiply length by width and store the result in an integer variable area.
Finally, we print the length, width, and the area to the screen.
And that's it for Java variables. Now you know how to create, update, and use them in your programs.
Thanks for watching! Like and subscribe to get notified about our latest videos.
For more coding tips and tricks, keep it locked right here on w3schools.com.
Don't forget to try out what you've learned in our interactive editor. Happy coding!